all right it is time to check in where
am I lacking where am I strong and What
needs to improve so let's test it out I
think the biggest thing that I've
focused on this year has just been the
front splits and this is definitely a
strong point for me um it feels very
comfortable and I don't even really need
to warm up to get into this position the
left side is definitely my weaker side
but it's still definitely doable so this
is probably my strong skill but it could
definitely go more I'm not sure if I'm
going to go into like overs splits or
anything but um it is worth exploring so
maybe I'll do that in the future now the
middle splits historically has been very
very challenging for me um I can
definitely get pretty low down there and
it takes a little bit of
time but I can get myself down pretty
close wait there's a touchdown but even
so it's not perfect it definitely could
use a lot of improvement and in the past
it was actually way better and you can
see that like this but um it's only
because I haven't put any effort or
focus on it so that is also a weak point
that I need to focus on and of course we
have to test the bane of my existence
the back bend I'm reasonably confident
that I can just kind of fall back into
it if I go a little sideways and then I
can start lifting myself up the reason
why this is a big weak point of mine is
because back in um I don't know what
year it was but a couple years ago I had
a back
injury um so the thought of extending my
spine at all in any capacity was scary
so I I didn't work on it as much as I
should have but I'm past that now so
there's no excuses so I can definitely
hold the back bend itself but there is a
lot of potential for increase here
oh but oh my goodness but it does take a
lot of effort I already tested the
middle split so you can kind of already
tell that my pancake flexibility is
really good um yeah I guess there's not
really and the best I could do in this
is probably start strengthening it so I
can hold like weights on my back and
start doing uh pancake good mornings I
haven't done those in a very long time
but even with just my body weight
oh this is a really good workout so
that's also another thing I could focus
on now I already showed you my front
split flexibility but something that I
didn't really talk about is the hip
flexor specifically with the hip flexor
your quads are hugely involved in fact
one of your hip flexor muscles is one of
your quad muscles and by the way it's
called a hip flexor because it flexes
your hip meaning it whoop so what you
can do is you can go into a a hip flexor
stretch just like so and as you can see
I'm really good at this I can sink super
super deep into this but where I'm weak
is when I get that quad more involved
and then my hips kind of have to elevate
and it takes some time to actually get
my hips down eventually what I'd like to
be able to do is get my hips to Sag down
much
further and get my leg closer to my butt
comfortably let's say so uh if I focused
on that my front split would be a dream
it would be just so easy it also would
unlock a lot more of that back
flexibility cuz
surprisingly um a lot of this has to do
with those hip flexors as you can see
from the side angle um the better your
your hip extension is the better your
back bridge
is my form is horrendous with that back
bridge but you get the point something I
always forget about but I shouldn't is
shoulder Flex flexibility now I've
always been naturally good at this one
so I never really focused on it a little
outside of shoulder width um but there's
definitely room for improvement here
where I could get that distance much
much closer
oh oh that is so difficult maybe one day
I'll get my hands closer and closer
maybe they'll touch one day but I'm not
there yet and it's just because I don't
focus on it whatsoever at all so so
that's another weakness of mine that I
should probably address now we're going
to go back to these hips here most
people forget that your hips are not
just about like hamstrings and hip
flexors they're also about rotation
external and internal I've always been
good at external rotation and I'll give
an example
here I had to train to get to this
ability but this was a lot easier than
um many other flexibility skills that I
have now what I thought was impossible
was hip internal rotation the ability to
go the other way but it's definitely not
impossible it's just I didn't train it
whatsoever the biggest thing I'm proud
of this year is that I've actually put
some effort into hip internal rotation
and I can now W sit like this without my
knees absolutely exploding so having my
hips sink down it is screaming inside my
hips right now but man oh that took a a
lot of effort to get to so there's a
little bit of room for improvement there
like I could get my feet further out um
there's lots of stuff but uh having that
internal rotation makes deep squatting
so easy like for instance you could just
chill like this you can do regular deep
squat or you can do your external
rotation deep squat kind of like the
yogis do this one requires a bit more
external rotation I don't really have
anything else to add to that so I'm
obviously way above average flexibility
wise but there is so much room to grow
it's insane
so uh yeah follow I mean if you want to
see me progress cuz I definitely will be
focusing on these and I will be
progressing so stay flexy